Scope & Closure, so I'm sure you're
aware that we have the global scope,
which is just for variables defined on
the global, then we have block scope.
So anything defined within
the curly brackets.
And we have function scope.
And all this means, of course,
is that variables inside of these scopes
are available to other functions or
any functionality within that scope.
And of course, if we, like in this case,
we have a fruit variable defined within
that function, so it's only available
within the function scope, and
using it outside of it will
throw a reference error.
So we cannot access variables that
are further up the scope chain.
Of course,
moving it will make it available to us and
the reference error will be gone.
But something that's a bit more
interesting, I find, is closures,
because this is something that can be
kind of difficult to understand at first.
Because here, it might look normal, but
what we have here is we have a function
outer, which returns a function inner.
But within the inner function,
we use a value that we pass to outer
to actually create a sum like x+y.
But how does inner still know what we pass
to outer if it's in a different scope?
And this all depends on how
JavaScript works with memory.
So here we have the global
lexical environment, and
then we have the environment record.
And the global environment record consists
of both the object environment record and
the declarative environment record.
The object one is for
function declarations and var keywords and
then the declarative one is for
const, let, classes, everything else.
So in this case we have the outer
function which creates a function object.
So this is just, we haven't called it yet,
this is just like the function object,
which contains a call method that
we can use to actually invoke it.
But this is first created
in memory like this.
And outer also has
an environment property.
And this always points to the environment
in which that function was created,
which in this case is
the global lexical environment.
And this is something
important to remember.
Cuz now we have the out variable, which is
const, so declarative environment record,
which calls outer too.
And this creates outer's
lexical environment, so
that call method is invoked,
which creates a lexical environment.
And because we pass 2, it sets x to the
argument to 2 in this lexical environment.
Now in this case,
we're not using any closures here
cuz now outer is just returning x.
So we're setting out to
whatever it returns to 2, and
then the lexical environment is removed
from memory cuz we don't use it anymore.
But this is different
when we use that closure,
cuz now we still have the outer
function object which we then call.
>> Lydia: So yeah, so we have the lexical
environment, and within outer,
it returns the inner function.
So this creates yet another function
object, namely the inner function object.
And now we're setting out, or the variable
out, not equal to the value of x, but
we're actually setting it equal to
the function object that we just created.
So the inner function object.
And as you can see here, the inner
function object also has the environment
that still points to the lexical
environment in which it was defined,
which in this case is
the outer lexical environment.
And because it still references
that from the global scope, or
like from the global lexical environment,
it cannot be garbage collected.
So whenever we use or
whenever we use, like x+y,
even though x isn't available
in the inner function object,
I'm just gonna call it now, cuz then
you can see the environment record.
The environment record doesn't contain x.
So it goes down to outer env, and then
the environment, and there it finds x.
So that's how it still knows
what x is when we call inner,
even though it doesn't have it
in its own environment record.
That's essentially what closures are.
It's just the fact that
a lexical environment is
still referencing environments from
the outer lexical environment.
I hope that makes some sense.
It's just going down that
environment chain pretty much.
So that's what closures are.
It's just the fact that it still
references it from the global lexical
environment, which is why it
cannot be garbage collected.
So just keep this in mind.
Because based on that, we have
the following question, what gets logged?
So we have an arrow function, outerFunc,
that contains the count variable
set to zero and it returns another
function, that increments count.
Then we have the counter variable,
which is just whatever gets
returned from outerFunc, and
then we're calling the login counter
twice, or the invocation of counter.
>> Lydia: So, is it either 0 and
1, 1 or 2, 1 and 1, or 0 and 0?
>> Lydia: The right answer is B,
it's 1 and 2.
So let's see how this works.
So we have the counter variable that
we set equal to the returned value of
the outerFunc function,
which is a function object,
in this case it's just
an anonymous function.
We didn't give it any any name or
something.
So here a counter is equal
to the function object.
And you can see that the environment
of that function object points to
the environment in which it was declared.
So in this case,
that is the outerFunc lexical environment.
And this contains the environment
record with count 0.
So now when we call it, which we do twice,
we create the lexical environment for
that anonymous function.
And of course, this is returning ++count.
It doesn't have its own count, so it goes
down that environment chain until it finds
it, which in this case is in
the outerFunc lexical environment.
So there it increments it.
So now count is one on the outer
function lexical environment.
Now the call ends, so it gets removed
from memory, but then we call it again.
It does the exact same thing.
It still doesn't have count, so
it just increments it on
the outerFunc lexical environment.
So the first time that we log counter,
you saw that we just incremented it.
It's one we do ++count.
So it logs it after incrementing it,
so it's one, and
then the second time we log it,
it's again ++count.
So ++1 is 2.
So that's how it got 1 and 2, make sense?
>> Speaker 2: So it was count++,
would it be then 0, 1?
>> Lydia: That would be 0, 1,
cuz then, it first returns it,
or first logs it, and then increments it,
but now we do a ++count, good.
Now then we go to the next question,
question six.
What gets logged?
So we have the createCounter function,
which has a global count of 0.
This also contains
a function incrementCount.
Which has the incremented value
being ++ global count, and
this returns the incremented value.
And we have a variable counter, which is
whatever gets returned from createCounter.
We have incrementCount, and
then we call createCounter,
and then we increment count,
so we're gonna be 0 1 0,
1 1 1, 0 1 2, 1 2 1, or 1 2 3?
>> Lydia: All right, so
the right answer is 1 2 1, number D.
All right, so
essentially what we have here is we
again in the object environment record.
So where function declarations are we have
the createCounter because it's a regular
function, I kind of had to format
the code block a bit different here.
But it's just the same
as what we just saw, and
then in the declarative environment
record we have the counter,
cuz we define it with const,
and then createCounter.
I just see that this actually should have
pointed to another object like regular
object that it then had
the incrementCount property on it.
This won't really change any of the
answer, but I'll make sure to update that.
But anyway, so we set counter equal to
the function object of incrementCount.
And we call it,
the very first console.log incrementCount.
And the incrementedValue is ++globalCount,
so it doesn't have its own globalCount.
So it goes down that environment and it
mutates globalCount on the createCounter
lexical environment,
because ++ actually mutates it.
But then it also has its own
variable called incrementedValue,
which is the value of
the incrementedCount, so
we now have the incrementedValue of 1 and
globalCount of 1.
Now this function stops running, we just
logged it, gets removed from memory, and
then we call it again, so
another lexical environment gets created.
Hello, there.
Now incrementedValue is 2, because that
global count was already at 1, and
it uses that same value, it went down
the environment chain to find 1,
we incremented ++ global count,
which is 2.
So in this lexical environment,
the increment value is 2,
global constant also 2.
But now, we call createCounter again,
which means that we're
calling that function again.
So we're creating a new
lexical environment,
cuz this is a new function invocation.
And in this case, globalCount is
just the default, it's 0 again.
So now when we call it, it's 1,
cuz it's just that ++ 0,
cuz globalCount was 0 by default,
which is 1.
So on the third log, it just logs 1 again,
cuz we're not pointing it to the same
lexical environment as the previous two.
Does it make sense?
So a function of vocation creates a new
lexical environment, and if that returns
another function, it's a new function
object in a new lexical environment.
Makes sense?
Cool, yeah, as I said, what should
have actually happened here is that,
cuz I'm returning an object,
I'm just saying that now that has
the incrementCount as a property.
So in between, or the counter should
have actually pointed to an object,
which then pointed to the function object.
But again, it doesn't change the output or
how this works, so we should be good.
Is this comparison true or false?
So we have the createUserManager function.
We have a user of null,
then you have a function that sets
a user to a new object, returns to user.
And then we have a createUser
variable that is the return value of
the createUserManager function.
And then we say,
okay, createUser John Doe is strictly
equal to another createUser John Doe.
Is it true or false?
>> Lydia: All right, and
the answer to this is it's false.
It's not equal, cuz what we see here
is that we have createUser variable,
which is equal to whatever gets
returned from the createUserManager.
This didn't really fit on the screen,
but that returned an anonymous function.
And in the createUserManager,
we have the letUser set to null, and
the environment of that anonymous function
object points to that lexical environment.
So createUserManager lexical
environment named John Doe,
and within that function,
we set user equal to a new object.
But since this is a new
lexical environment,
we just create a new object in memory,
and that then gets returned.
So createUser John Doe just returns
to that user object that we
just created in that createUserManager
lexical environment.
So that function,
it returned something so it's gone out,
and then we call it again for
the other strict equal.
And again, we create a new user here, and
it doesn't know that we already created
another user object in the previous one.
So it just creates a new
function object in
the createUserManager lexical environment.
And objects, when we're comparing objects,
we're actually comparing the references
that they have in memory, and they both
have a different reference in memory.
The first createUserFunction created a
different object in memory than the second
createUserInvocation, so
that's why it's false.
And that useStrict was
just to throw you off.
Cuz normally, when we have useStrict
in functions or in the global scope,
it'll say, you cannot use a variable
that we haven't defined yet.
Like saying user in a global scope would
say, first, you have to actually declare
that variable before you're able
to set anything equal to it.
>> Speaker 3: If we were to console log,
createUser Jane Doe, and
then create a John Doe and
then createUser John Doe.
The difference would be
the time it's created,
the created value will be different.
>> Lydia: No, it's actually
a different object in memory.
And when we're comparing objects, even
saying object = object, this is false.
Cuz when we're creating an object, this
is a reference to a point in memory, and
it's not the same reference.
But when we did const object is equal,
and then we're saying object = object,
that is equal,
cuz this is just one reference in memory.
But yeah,
it's just creating a new object, so
that's why we're essentially saying
object = object, which is false.
>> Speaker 3: I asked that because on
line 6, there's also createdAt value.
>> Lydia: Yeah, so it would have been,
they would have had
different values anyway.
So it would have been false anyway,
but even if it was the same.
>> Speaker 3: And if it were the same,
it wouldn't matter.
>> Lydia: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, even if that value is
not there, even if it's just user's name.
>> Lydia: Yeah, even this wouldn't be.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, yeah.
>> Lydia: Yeah,
cuz we're creating it new, yeah.
>> Lydia: All right.
>> Lydia: Leave this as the next one.
What gets logged?
So it's pretty similar to the previous
one, but easier, I think.
This one,
we have a createCounter function,
which receives the initial
count parameter.
Then we have a counter variable,
createCounter(10).
We invoke counter twice and
then log it the third time.
Is it 1, 11, 13, not a number,
or a reference error.
>> Lydia: All right,
the right answer is C, 13.
So in this case, it's pretty
similar to what we had last time.
We have the counter variable that we
set equal to the function object that
gets returned from createCounter.
So in this case,
it's that kind of anonymous function.
And then we have the count variable in
the lexical environment in the environment
record of the lexical environment
of createCounter, so that's 10.
And then we invoke counter twice, and
we use count in that returned function,
which doesn't have its own count variable.
So it goes down that environment
chain to find it and
to create counter lexical environment.
So that increments it and sets it equal or
that increments it by one.
So we have 10, and then we have 11,
and then we make it 11, sorry,
and then we make it 12.
And then on the last one,
we actually log it, so not the first two,
and then we increment it by one again,
so that makes it 13.
So it keeps that same reference, it uses
that same count variable within that
create count the counter
lexical environment,
which is why it increments it based on or
after every invocation.
That make sense?
[LAUGH] I should have probably made
a little flow for this as well, but
it's the same as we did last times,
but a bit easier.
Okay, I think this is the last
question about this topic.
So which statements are correct?
Hoisting is the process
of moving functions and
variables to the top of the file.
Variables declared with let and
const are hoisted.
Variables declared with the var
keyword are uninitialized.
Hoisting occurs during the execution phase
and import declarations are hoisted.
>> Lydia: The right answer here is B and
E.
So variables declared with let and
const are hoisted and
import declarations are hoisted as well.
So let's see what that means.
So whenever we run a script,
we actually have two phases.
First, we have the creation phase in
which JavaScript sets up memory for
everything that we have in our script.
So first, it creates the sum,
it's a module lexical environment.
I won't go too deep in
the module stuff right now.
But it does create that and
we have the myFunc regular function.
So in the object environment record that,
and
it immediately creates that function
object for functions as well.
Now for variables fine with the var
keyword, it also sets up memory with
a default value of undefined Find but
then we have the const and let which
you might know are they are still hoisted
meaning like we do set up memory space for
them already but
we just don't initialize them yet,
like they don't have that
default value of undefined.
So age username and
also arrow function because it's
still a const keyword are all
uninitialized during the creation phase.
And then, we have the actual, execution
phase in which JavaScript goes one by one.
So, okay age is 25, username is John,
email is email.com,
and then arrow function is
that new function object.
So, this is why we cannot, access age and
username before their declaration,
because they are uninitialized, and
then you get that reference era with IK,
you cannot access this on an uninitialized
value, but it does know that.
All right, we do have age,
it's just not initialized yet and
that's the hoisting part.
So sometimes you'll see like,
only variables with the var keyword
are hoisted or only functions are hoisted.
And then some people say like,
they're moved to the top of their file.
Wait, let me just show you.
And that's just not like,
I think that just creates confusion.
Like here, because it's not that, they
physically move to the top of the file.
That's not what's happening.
It's just that they are created in memory
with default values that we can use if
it's a regular function declaration or
a fart keyword, but
they're not like physically moved
to a different part of the file.
Yeah, so same for modules, cuz that
module electrical environment is created.
This is like that static part about like
ES modules where JavaScript can already
analyze and even tree shake.
So like analyze that code for
modules before that script even executes.
>> Lydia: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Does it mean if it's
even were on line 13 or whatever,
it's already hosted
before the script is run?
>> Lydia: Yeah, so now if we,
just gonna run this.
So this is just logging some email
in my phone, so I'm going to MJS.
So here's the function some
undefined on my phone, so
this is before we even do that, but if I
were to do the same with age username,
you will see that it throws an error.
It cannot access age before
initialization, but it still knows age,
like it just knows it hasn't
been initialized yet.
So that's like the hoisting part.
It's not that it doesn't have
any reference in memory.
No, it does, but uninitialized, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: How does
strict mode affect this?
>> Lydia: Use strict
console lock on some email.
Note and that's, that's fine.
You just cannot like use,
a strip mall you cannot just say like.
newName is Lydia.
Then it'll say we cannot,
here, newName is not defined.
But if I wasn't using use strict.
Well, this is actually a module.
[LAUGH] Modules are strict by default,
so I'm just gonna create a new one here,
test.js.
myName is Lydia,
note test.js, that's fine.
I'm gonna log it.
Live coding is so scary.
I always forget how I use my fingers.
Okay, so here my name is Lydia.
But then we do use strict and
now it'll actually say like,
complain reference error.
My name is not defined.
That's like the biggest difference
with use trick but again, also,
if you're using modules, it'll do the same
thing cuz modules are strict by default.
So if I have like my name, Lydia,
and I don't use use strict here,
my name, it should throw the same error.
It does, my name is not defined,
without using use strict, but modules, and
it's the extension MJS, Module js,
it's strict by default, so just a,
just an FYI, but
it shouldn't affect hoisting, so, okay.
Very last question in that case, what
is the output if you run this code and
orange is our favorite fruit.
Is it orange with the actual
orange color in the terminal?
Is it orange with that percentage see,
no color for you syntax error or
orange, but
we're actually using the white text,
which means that it's using the CSS
value from the top of the scope.
>> Lydia: Right,
the right answer is syntax error.
Because you can see that.
We have a block scope with switch.
But afterward,
we don't have any block and any brackets.
Like case orange is just we have those
parentheses, but it's not an actual block,
so we're redeclaring a variable
within the same block scope.
That's not possible, but what we can do
is actually wrap this in brackets cuz now
we're creating a new block scope for
every case.
So now we can like if one throw
that syntax error, but luckily, I'm
just going to show you VS code because it
actually show you this little, red line.
If you can see it ever show concrete aura,
crease the font size here.
Because this is without the brackets and
I'll actually tell you you cannot read
Eclair the block scoped variable CSS,
because we have to here, but
what we can do is just wrap this in
brackets and then it's all good.
So that's that scope again,
same with here.
Now it's fine because now we only have
one CSS in this switch block, right?
Cuz these are the brackets here.
So this is one scope, make sense?
All right, that was the last question for
us, scope and closures.